4. Implementation
The UniVote system implements a multi-tier architecture that integrates distributed ledger technology with traditional web application components. This hybrid approach uses the security and transparency benefits of blockchain while maintaining the performance characteristics of traditional web applications which altogether create a secure, reliable and scalable e-voting platform for the university election processes. 


1.1.	Software Design
Frontend Technologies
The software of the project is deployed in DigitalOcean, which is cloud service provider suitable for small and medium size projects and startups because of its affordability, ease of use, accessibility and availability. The front end of the application is developed using React.js, Typescript, Ethers.js and Tailwind CSS to create a responsive and user-friendly interface through which users can register, log in, view candidates and elections, and cast their votes easily. React was chosen as a primary frontend framework because of its efficiency, maintainability and component-based architecture which helped to save resources, minimize the code size and develop interactive and reusable design elements ensuring higher performance of the web application. To improve the code quality of our application, we integrated Typescript, which helps to catch errors early in development and reduce potential bugs. The TanStack Query library is used with React to manage and synchronize remote data and server state in our application keeping UI in sync with the backend. Tailwind CSS framework was used for design and layout of pages. Regarding the integration with blockchain, Ethers.js library was used for connection of frontend and Polygon network, where it handles wallet connections and communication with smart contract. 

Backend Technologies
The back end of the system is developed using Node.js, Express.js, passport.js and DrizzleORM together with Nodemailer for email verification using Gmail SMTP. Node.js was selected because it is a lightweight and fast JavaScript runtime environment with event-driven, non-blocking I/O model, providing optimal performance for concurrent API requests and easy integration with Blockchain and PostgreSQL. Also, considering that the front end of our application was developed in React, using Node.js helped to unify the development stack making the context switching and code sharing between the front end and back end of the system easier. Express.js framework was used to build Restful APIs because of its extensive middleware ecosystem, flexibility and performance characteristics. DrizzleORM, ORM library providing type-safety, performance, and lightweight architecture, was used to interact with databases and work with database records. Passport.js was utilized to easily handle the authentication process and its details.

For structured data storage PostgreSQL was used to store less critical data such as user authentication, election and candidate information. Polygon Amoy Testnet on the other hand, was used to store critical data which is voting transaction information in our system. 

Blockchain Technologies
The system was created in Polygon Network which is a Layer 2 blockchain solution providing low transaction costs, security, high throughput, and Ethereum compatibility. The smart contract of the system was deployed in Hardhat, which was preferred due to its comprehensive testing framework, debugging capabilities, plugin ecosystem, automated deployment and verification. Solidity was chosen as the smart contract language for its maturity, security features, and compatibility with EVM-based networks. 
Lastly, MetaMask was selected as the primary wallet interface of the system because of its widespread adoption, security features, and user familiarity. It also provides seamless transaction signing and account management which are highly important in decentralized applications like UniVote. 

Security Measures
Security is one of the key concepts of the UniVote e-voting system; therefore, numerous steps have been taken to eliminate possible security problems in the application. Since storing all the data on the blockchain would lead to high gas fees, delays and increased complexity of operations such as listing candidates by faculty or displaying the elections based on their status, off-chain data storage was used to store all data except transactional data. This approach has helped to combine flexibility, cost-effectiveness and performance of PostgreSQL with security and immutability of blockchain; however, storing credentials such as passwords requires other security measures like password hashing to be applied in order to avoid critical security breaches such as SQL injection, credential leakage, and privilege escalation. Bcrypt, which is one of the most reliable password hashing algorithms, has been used to hash the user passwords in the database to avoid potential security risks raising from storing passwords in plain text. Authentication verification and role-based access control are the fundamental concepts in web application security. Authentication verification was used in our application to ensure that only registered users with valid credentials can access the system, while role-based access control limits functionality and actions based on user roles such as administrator, voter, or candidate. To enforce this securely, the system uses session-based authentication with secure cookies, which store user session data and help prevent unauthorized access and session hijacking. CSRF tokens were used to mitigate cross-site request forgery vulnerabilities synchronized token patterns, preventing authorized operations. Content Security Policy is a defense mechanism used to prevent another client-side attack called cross-site scripting (XSS) attack. The Content Security Policy mitigates the attack by controlling resource loading sources, inline script execution, and external connections to the system. Another technique used to protect the system from cross-site scripting attack along with Buffer Overflow and injection attacks such as SQL Injection and Command Injection is the Input Validation. Input Validation is the process of checking the input data so that users cannot perform unauthorized data manipulation in the system by entering malicious input such as commands and scripts. Rate limiting is another important technique which was used to limit the number of requests that can be made to an endpoint and protect the system against resource abuse that can lead to denial-of-service (DoS) and distributed-denial-of-service (DDOS) attacks which result in the server becoming overloaded and unavailable. Lastly, One-Time Voting Tokens have been used to ensure that each voter will be able to cast their votes only once with one-vote-per-eligible-voter constraints while maintaining the independence of a blockchain address. 

